Reflections

The command line is a text based interface for interacting with files, programes, and directories on your computer. 
It is similar to how old text based adventure games worked. Only specific commands will be understood by the computer.

I had no problems with sticking to timebox guidlines as I have previous experience with terminal / command line.

Five useful commands for the terminal are:
unix / win
ls / dir : list files and directries in current directory 
pwd / echo%cd% : present working directory (where am I now?)
cd .. : back one directory
cd dirName  : move to dirName
mkdir : create a new directory

Didn't really learn anything new here but it was a good refresher.



Git 

GitHub workflow is a means by which peolpe can colaborate on software projects, while
minimising the chances of someone fucking up everyones work. It provides an online back up
which can be cloned onto any invited parties machine. Once stored locally it can be  worked    
on seperate from the colaborative work, stored online.
The code on the local machine is splitt into a master branch and however many
sub-branches one might need. Once happy with the work on a sub-branch, it can be merged 
back into the main. 
Changes can also be pushed to GitHub to save your changes to the online 
copy. When pushing, there must not be any conflicts between your local and the online copy
or it will fail.   
To get an updated copy from GitHub you can use a pull command.
This will update the local version of the branch you pulled, with any changes made to the 
GitHub version.


Today I realised how much trying to get ahead of myself holds me back. 
When I take the time to uderstand the full process, before diving in and trying to brute 
force myself through a subject, I get stuck a lot less often and am calmer about it When
I do. I know I have been over what I'm trying to figure out and it is easier to go 
back and find where I have been going wrong.
Taking a short break, even just walking around for a minute, helps to clear my head when 
I'm feeling blocked. And google usually has the answer when I've stopped being too 
boneheaded to just look it up.


If I were to do todays leason again, I would take my time more with the introductory 
steps. By rushing in to trying to do everything immediatly, I missed the bigger picture of 
the importance of workflow and made git seem harder than it is.

